[MTA 8.2.0] New mta-ops guide (#383)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/mta-ops/con_introduction-to-the-mta-ops-cli.adoc

:_template-generated: 2026-07-07
:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="introduction-to-the-mta-ops-cli_{context}"]
= Introduction to the mta-ops CLI

[role="_abstract"]
As a platform engineer or a cluster administrator, you can use the `mta-ops` command-line interface (CLI) to safely extract, clean, and validate stateless applications before deployment.

The `mta-ops` tool provides a non-destructive, repeatable, and GitOps-ready migration workflow for Red Hat OpenShift workloads.

The migration pipeline consists of the following stages in a strict order:

* The export stage captures a read-only snapshot of the source namespace.
* The transformation stage cleans cluster-specific metadata and applies additional transformations, if needed.
* The application stage renders final deployable manifests locally.
* The validation stage is an optional but recommended step that checks target cluster application programming interface (API) compatibility.
* The deployment stage applies the workloads to the destination cluster.

The export, transformation, application, and validation stages output directly to your local disk. The deployment stage applies workloads to the target cluster.

> The tool migrates stateless workloads and their associated cluster-scoped dependencies. These dependencies include role-based access controls (RBAC), Custom Resource Definitions (CRDs), and SecurityContextConstraints (SCCs).

Reviewer: I'd say "role-based access control" - singular. We don't seem to have it defined anywhere tho but all product docs and articles use singular and that is what I'm used to. Some examples:

- https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_hybrid_cloud_console/1-latest/html/user_access_configuration_guide_for_role-based_access_control_rbac/assembly-insights-rbac-intro_user-access-configuration
- https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/security/what-is-role-based-access-control
- https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.10/html/authorization_in_red_hat_developer_hub/index

Plus CRD https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#custom-resource-definition, and SCC- no capital letters.

Fix it if it occurs elsewhere.

```suggestion
The tool migrates stateless workloads and their associated cluster-scoped dependencies. These dependencies include role-based access control (RBAC), custom resource definitions (CRDs), and security context constraints (SCCs).
```

> IMPORTANT: `mta-ops` does not support stateful migrations that involve the transfer of Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs) and underlying data.

Reviewer: Proof https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#persistent-volume-claim

```suggestion
IMPORTANT: `mta-ops` does not support stateful migrations that involve the transfer of persistent volume claims (PVCs) and underlying data.
```
